docs/awesome-repositories.md, before:

# Awesome Repositories Schema

JSON schema for validating awesome repositories configuration files.

## Description

This schema is designed to validate YAML/JSON files containing structured catalogs of repositories organized by categories and subcategories.

## Usage

### Editor Integration

Add to your YAML file:

```yaml
# yaml-language-server: $schema=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/abordage/schemas/main/schemas/awesome-repositories/awesome-repositories.schema.json

categories:
  # your configuration
```

### CI/CD Integration

Use the [schema-validation-action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/schema-validation-action) for automated validation in your workflows:

```yaml
# Validate single file
- name: Validate awesome repositories
  uses: cardinalby/schema-validator-action@v3
  with:
    file: 'config/repositories.yaml'
    schema: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/abordage/schemas/main/schemas/awesome-repositories/awesome-repositories.schema.json'

# Validate multiple files
- name: Validate all repository configs
  uses: cardinalby/schema-validator-action@v3
  with:
    file: 'configs/*.yaml'
    schema: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/abordage/schemas/main/schemas/awesome-repositories/awesome-repositories.schema.json'

# Auto-validation using $schema property in files
- name: Validate repositories with embedded schema
  uses: cardinalby/schema-validator-action@v3
  with:
    file: 'configs/repositories.yaml'
    # No schema parameter needed if file contains $schema property
```

## Data Structure

### Root Object

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `categories` | array | ✓ | Array of repository categories |

### Category

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `name` | string | ✓ | Category name |
| `description` | string | ✗ | Category description |
| `repos` | array | ✗ | Array of repositories |
| `subcategories` | array | ✗ | Array of subcategories |

### Subcategory

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `name` | string | ✓ | Subcategory name |
| `description` | string | ✗ | Subcategory description |
| `repos` | array | ✓ | Array of repositories |

### Repository

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `url` | string | ✓ | GitHub repository URL |
| `name` | string | ✗ | Custom repository name |
| `description` | string | ✗ | Repository description |

## Validation Rules

- URLs must match GitHub repository pattern
- Category and subcategory names cannot be empty
- Subcategories must contain at least one repository
- Root object must contain at least one category

## Examples

See `examples/awesome-repositories/` folder for complete usage examples.

Commit message:

Enforce uniqueness constraints in schema
Added `uniqueItems` property to enforce uniqueness for categories, subcategories, and repositories within their respective arrays. Updated descriptions in JSON schema and validation rules in documentation to clarify the uniqueness requirements. Enhanced schema robustness by requiring non-empty repository arrays and ensuring that item uniqueness is validated appropriately.

docs/awesome-repositories.md, after:

# Awesome Repositories Schema

JSON schema for validating awesome repositories configuration files.

## Description

This schema is designed to validate YAML/JSON files containing structured catalogs of repositories organized by categories and subcategories.

## Usage

### Editor Integration

Add to your YAML file:

```yaml
# yaml-language-server: $schema=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/abordage/schemas/main/schemas/awesome-repositories/awesome-repositories.schema.json

categories:
  # your configuration
```

### CI/CD Integration

Use the [schema-validation-action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/schema-validation-action) for automated validation in your workflows:

```yaml
# Validate single file
- name: Validate awesome repositories
  uses: cardinalby/schema-validator-action@v3
  with:
    file: 'config/repositories.yaml'
    schema: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/abordage/schemas/main/schemas/awesome-repositories/awesome-repositories.schema.json'

# Validate multiple files
- name: Validate all repository configs
  uses: cardinalby/schema-validator-action@v3
  with:
    file: 'configs/*.yaml'
    schema: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/abordage/schemas/main/schemas/awesome-repositories/awesome-repositories.schema.json'

# Auto-validation using $schema property in files
- name: Validate repositories with embedded schema
  uses: cardinalby/schema-validator-action@v3
  with:
    file: 'configs/repositories.yaml'
    # No schema parameter needed if file contains $schema property
```

## Data Structure

### Root Object

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `categories` | array | ✓ | Array of repository categories |

### Category

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `name` | string | ✓ | Category name |
| `description` | string | ✗ | Category description |
| `repos` | array | ✗ | Array of repositories |
| `subcategories` | array | ✗ | Array of subcategories |

### Subcategory

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `name` | string | ✓ | Subcategory name |
| `description` | string | ✗ | Subcategory description |
| `repos` | array | ✓ | Array of repositories |

### Repository

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `url` | string | ✓ | GitHub repository URL |
| `name` | string | ✗ | Custom repository name |
| `description` | string | ✗ | Repository description |

## Validation Rules

### Basic Rules
- URLs must match GitHub repository pattern
- Category and subcategory names cannot be empty
- Subcategories must contain at least one repository
- Root object must contain at least one category
- Repository arrays (`repos`) cannot be empty - must contain at least one repository when present

### Uniqueness Constraints
- **Category names** must be unique within the `categories` array
- **Subcategory names** must be unique within each parent category
- **Repository objects** must be unique within each `repos` array

### Uniqueness Limitations
**Note**: JSON Schema Draft 7 uses `uniqueItems` which compares entire objects for equality. This means:
- For repositories: The entire repository object (url, name, description) must be identical to be considered duplicate
- For categories/subcategories: The entire object must be identical to be considered duplicate
- For field-specific uniqueness (e.g., only URL uniqueness), additional validation tools may be needed

## Examples

See `examples/awesome-repositories/` folder for complete usage examples.
